--- 
title: "Mathematical Notes for Machine Learning"
author: "Qiushi Yan"
date: "2020-08-12"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
documentclass: book
bibliography: [references.bib, packages.bib]
biblio-style: apalike
link-citations: yes
github-repo: enixam/math-foundations
#nocite: '@*'
#description: "This is a minimal example of using the bookdown package to write a book. The output format for this example is bookdown::gitbook."
---

# Preface {-}  

This document aims to cover various mathematical topics relevant to machine learning problems, including linear algebra, calculus, probability theory, and possibly optimization (statistics should be in another stand-alone document). Since it currently serves mainly as a self-reminder, some basic knowledge (especially in the calculus part) that are already familiar to me are skipped. Other than that I try to put things in a logical, consistent order.  


References (books, online courses, videos, papers) include:  

- **general**
  - [Mathematics for Machine Learning](http://gwthomas.github.io/docs/math4ml.pdf) by Garret Thomas
  - *Mathematics for Machine Learning* [@Deisenroth2020]
  
- **Linear Algebra**
  - *Linear Algebra and its Applications* [@lay2006-3]  
  - *Linear Algebra and Optimization for Machine Learning* [@DBLP:books/sp/Aggarwal20]  
  - *Matrix Algebra: Theory, Computations, and Applications in Statistics* [@10.5555/1534802]
  - *Linear Algebra and its Applications* [@strang2006linear]  
  - [Linear Algebra Review and Reference](http://cs229.stanford.edu/section/cs229-linalg.pdf) on Stanford's cs229 website   
  - Gilbert Strang. 18.065 Matrix Methods in Data Analysis, Signal Processing, and Machine Learning. Spring 2018. Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA.
  
- **Probability Thoery**  
  - *Probability for Statistics and Machine Learning: Fundamentals and Advanced Topics* [@10.5555/2028916]
  - *Introduction to Probability* [@blitzstein2019] 
  - *Introduction to Probability* [@bertsekas2008introduction]
  - John Tsitsiklis, and Patrick Jaillet. RES.6-012 Introduction to Probability. Spring 2018. Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA.

The document is generated by the **bookdown** package [@R-bookdown].
